# Database System Project
## Introduction
Yelp website has become one of the most popular sites choose by users to find suggestions and leave reviews about different services in different kind of businesses. Due flexibility of the options that the website offers to users such as reviews, stars, tips, likes, cools and other useful information, the website has reached a millions of reviews and thousands of users. All the information of this website feeds the database of Yelp. Thus, this database has favorable information in order to do data mining and prediction of data. 
 
The present work has been divided in some phases which search to provide confident results about data analysis. The first phase is to determine an entitiy-relational model, this phase will identify how the different actors in the database as business, users, reviews, tips, friends, hours and others are related among them through reasoned relations. Of this phase depends the next phases. Furthermore, a correct of identification of the E-R model ensures for example other important properties to avoid redundancy in the database which can cause different problems in the moment to process data such as inconsistency of results or delays in processing queries. 
 
The second phase is pre-processing the data. This phase involves to verify self-consistency and sanity of the data which is stored in the database YELP. Self-consistency is related specifically with same attributes contain in different relations. It means that if an attribute is a primary key in one relation, the instances of the same attribute in other relations should be consistent. It is impossible that an attribute which is a foreign key has instances which are not in the relation which has the primary key. While sanity is related with the validity of some facts that in reality cannot be occurred, especially validation about dates which are contained in the database. To illustrate, the sanity phase takes in account validation of data which cannot be in the future, or data which can exist before the creation of the YELP database. Furthermore, the sanity phase implicates some important validations such as a user cannot have a review before that his account was created, and other validations which will expose in the section.  Finally, it is important to denote that the sanity goes beyond the checking of the facts that we exposed above. The present project exposes the data should be chosen in order to have consistent results. To do viable the processing of all the information exposed above and considering the amount of data stored in the database in the project was created indexes in order to improve the time of processing of each query. 
 
The third phase considered in this project is data-analysis which involves some stages. The first stage is the suitable selection of data depending that the fact which will be analyzed. It is important to highlight, that the efficient selection of data depends of the indexes which will be created analyzing the performance of queries. The second stage considered the trend or coeffective factors based on the diagrams we plotted, and final stage is analyzing the data in order to infer a result. 
 
Finally, the fourth phase is related with the security and application development in the database of YELP. This phase considered the creation of different kind of users with distinct permissions to handle data of database. As a plus is exposed a simple API developed in Phyton which allows to give more security to the database depending of the kind of user.
